This repository hosts my code for deep learning NLP COVID Question Answering System. 
## An Introduction (Copied from my project report for this project)
The report summarizes to the mentor, Droid-retort, a real-time question-answering (QA) system using Artificial Intelligence and Deep-Learning. The system aims to tackle the challenge of mining the various scientific articles published on COVID-19 by answering the high-priority questions which may be asked by the scientific researchers, the pharmaceutical practitioners, or the layman, alike. The system aims at providing real-time answers from scholarly and scientific research papers thus providing concise, reliable, trustworthy answers for the questions, sans the "fake or unverified solutions". It combines information extraction and many multi-document extraction techniques, selecting and highlighting evidence snippets from the literature on the given query. It also includes extractive methods to provide abstract and summarization of the most relevant information relating to the question. I have conducted further exploratory data analysis to showcase the various metrics related to the dataset, providing a bird's eye view of the data which has been used, thereby increasing the transparency.
The COVID-19 Pandemic engulfed the world in its grasp in December 2019, with the world initially a bit subdued in responding to the crisis that was at hand, but actively taking measures, nevertheless. Despite the measures taken by countries across the world and the scientific community, it's 2022 and the world is still waiting, for the pandemic to end. Initially, a lot rested upon the shoulders of the pharmaceutical and scientific community to develop vaccines which were effective and could offer protection to the masses and reduce the casualties the virus caused. Enter 2021, and came with it, new variants which were highly resistant, more transmissible and showed new symptoms with varying effects on the effectiveness of the vaccines. Along with an increase in the variants or changing nature of the symptoms of the infection, came a new low in the quality and trustworthiness of news sources with "fake news" being rampant. To handle these problems, the questions can be answered by deploying Deep Learning NLP techniques to develop Question Answering AI System which work in real-time, taking data from scholarly articles and research papers allowing researchers, health experts, and the enthusiasts to get concise, reliable, and trustworthy information, enabling them to get answers or to diagnose new symptoms which are emerging in real-time or to get answers about other questions which might arise. An AI system of such sort can prove to be a boon to all the stakeholders involved when deployed for the right use cases.
## Objective
The objective of the Question Answering System is to develop an end to end system which can be hosted on the web or as a standalone app as one stop destination for researchers, policy makers or bio-medical specialists and common citizens to get reliable solutions on problems and questions related to COVID-19 and its variants, getting the answers to those questions highlighted in real time along with their confidence score so that the user gets to know whether the information which has been fetched is to be trusted or not. The use of natural language processing allows us to expand and apply this model to a variety of question answering tasks.
